pressure cooker pasta fagioli is what
we're making today Bluffs people are
scared of using a pressure cooker in the
kitchen it's a really handy tool to be
able to cook things very quickly what it
does is it seals and by using pressure
and steam it cooks things that would
normally have to cook for a long period
of time
much faster so there's a couple of
important parts to the pressure cooker
the lid and the actual pot part you can
see on the pot there's flanges all the
way around which lock everything
together as well as that there's also a
locking pin so once you put the lid on
and lock it into place there's a pin
that'll come up as it comes in to
pressure which is going to make sure
that this stays nice and sealed and safe
so you can't open it
so to start cooking my pasta fagioli I
have some pancetta here pancetta is
similar to bacon it's not smoked though
it's just cured it's a salty bacon with
no smoke flavor so I'm gonna put this in
to start and what I want to do you don't
need oil in this we want to render out
some of the fat from our pancetta so I
just want to put this into a dry pan
over kind of medium-high heat
you just want to sweat this a little bit
and saute it to get those fats to come
out kind of crisp it up a little bit and
get some of that delicious pancetta
bacon flavor into the base of our our
pasta today some of the other things
that we're gonna put in I have some
carrots celery and onions those are
gonna go in just after the pancetta have
to a penci out of crisps a little bit
and we'll stir those in and start
sauteing those as well so onions just
finely diced onion
a little bit of carrot and celery these
are the base for most things that you
cook they they tie everything together
really nicely again just stir this so
while this is cooking I'll add my dry
spices I have some basil oregano dried
basil dried oregano and marjoram we're
gonna give you that nice base sort of
Italian flavors we're gonna add a little
bit of chopped garlic and once you add
your chopped garlic you want to be
careful that you stir it lots garlic has
a very high sugar content so it has a
tendency to burn so make sure that you
keep moving it around the bottom of your
pot and then the last thing is a bay
leaf just one bay leaf dried or fresh if
it's fresh I like to kind of crack it a
little bit to help the flavors and oils
come out of it we'll just throw that in
whole and at the end of the cooking
process we'll have to remember to take
that out so they're just gonna saute
together until your vegetables are soft
once your vegetables get kind of soft
your onions start to get translucent
we're just going to throw a little bit
of white wine in and the white wine is
gonna help us deglaze the bottom of the
pan get all those great pancetta flavors
tie everything together if you didn't
have wine or you didn't want to use one
you could certainly use a little bit of
stock or even water you just want to
make sure that you get all those little
bits off the bottom of your pan and then
you want to bring this up to over a
medium-high heat and reduce the liquid
until it's almost gone you want to cook
out as much of that wine as you can okay
so my wine is almost reduced I've
reduced this so it's almost dry again as
you can see there's the dried spices and
the carrots the vegetables in there
onions celery pancetta are all really
really great so what I want to do now is
add my soaked beans these are dry
cannellini beans you can buy dried beans
at most grocery stores or a bulk store
they're super inexpensive they last
forever and then what we did here was
soaked them overnight so we filled them
up with you know large nonreactive Bowl
covered them with cold water and let
them sit in the fridge for about 24
hours and what that does is helps them
grow it they almost double in size they
start absorbing some water and then
they'll cook a lot more evenly so to
cook these soaked beans I just want to
put them into my pressure cooker now on
top of that I'm gonna pour in some
chicken stock or chicken broth so we'll
pour that in and now I want to bring
this up to a boil and at this point this
is where we're gonna start utilizing the
pressure in the pressure cooker so you
want to bring this up to a boil before
we put the lid on so over high heat this
is gonna start heating up so the lid now
has a couple of parts and what this is
going to do is go to we're gonna put it
on and I'll talk a little bit about the
lid so before you put your pressure
cooker on you always want to make sure
that you check this rubber seal and make
sure that it's in good repair there's no
cracks or signs where on it there's a
safety valve which will is there for
safety there's a little bit of a steam
release valve which controls how much
steam goes off and on the other side of
that it's it's a bobber and this will
rock back and forth and just control the
amount of steam that's coming out of the
pressure cooker and the last thing is
this safety valve so this is actually a
safety pin that once your pressure
cooker comes up to pressure this pin
will push up and it locks everything in
place so that you can't open the lid
there's actually a safety mechanism
built into this so to put the lid on you
can see this is flanged and then there
is the flanges on the top of your
pressure cooker so what I want to do is
there's a little arrow and you want to
line up the arrow on the handle and on
the lid okay line up very nicely and
then the handle comes together in two
pieces and locks into place once it's
locked into place we can place our Babur
on top and we'll just wait for the
safety pin to come up once the pin comes
up that means you have achieved high
pressure at that point you want to
adjust your heat to control the pin to
still be risen so that you know you're
at high pressure and not letting it fall
and once the pin comes up this is gonna
cook for 17 minutes so in 17 minutes
we're gonna go from soaked beans to
completely cooked beans that are tender
all the way through so our pasta fagioli
has been cooking in the pressure cooker
for 17 minutes at high pressure I've
turned it off the heat and cooled it
down completely so that the the safety
mechanism has unlocked so now I can
safely open the lid
it'll open no problem and it's still hot
in there you can see the steam still
coming out my beans should be cooked so
that they're nice and tender all of
those flavors have imparted into the
beans so now what I want to do is stir
in some canned tomatoes we like to use
San Marzano styles canned tomatoes
it's an Italian style tomato that comes
packed in tomato juice as opposed to
water some brands of tomatoes canned
tomatoes come packed with water the ones
that say San Marzano or the San Marzano
tomatoes from Italy are generally a
higher quality and it will give you a
better product in the end
so I'm just gonna pour these through
some tomato and then I'm gonna turn it
back on the heat and leave this
uncovered so I've my can of tomato and
then I have a cup of pasta as well we're
using elbow macaroni but you could use
any small pasta just to cook through
this is gonna help absorb some of the
liquid and make a delicious dish so now
what I want to do is this is gonna take
as long as the pasta takes
so about nine minutes to cook the past
all the way through
I just want to stir it around bring it
up to a high heat the liquid is going to
boil away those tomatoes are going to
break down it will give you a beautiful
pasta product that is best served right
away
so very simple dish that you can serve
to your family
visit octo blue flame kitchen comms for
more tips